foreign myself
or I just want to roll over and stay
safe
[Music]
I either want to fight against myself or
I don't want to listen
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease
today we're going to share a coaching
session between Joe and a woman in our
community who is experiencing tension
around authority figures the
conversation starts off with workplace
challenges and very quickly ties into
her relationship with her father
ultimately touching on how she can give
and receive love
we've removed her name and other
identifying information for the sake of
confidentiality
while listening to this conversation pay
some attention to Joe's state of mind
and how he holds the view principles
these are the kinds of conversations
that Joe has with participants and that
participants learn to have with each
other in the art of accomplishment
course let's get started
what do you want to talk about today
I notice I freeze around people who
remind me of my father
[Music]
especially in work situations like this
is a foreign
repeatedly yeah how do you see them as
like your father
they don't see me
how do you know they don't see you
because it's very clear they don't know
how I tick
what's the evidence
well I'm doing something I'm motivated
and then they start to speak to what
they think I'm motivated by they'll be
like good job oh here this is exactly
what we need out of a team member who
wants to step into leadership and just
like whatever [__] they're gonna
tell me
I like uh this isn't why I'm doing this
I'm doing it because I love it
not doing it for money what if they did
see you and you you can't recognize it
I'm not saying that that's true by any
stretch but
if
it were true
what would it mean
well I mean I'm judging the [__] out of
them I think that's true
um I think it would mean
let's just get I do think that's true it
would mean
um what makes you judge your father
what made you judge your father I
thought he was wrapped up in himself
so much that he couldn't see anyone else
yeah
how is that not true about you
that's a scary question for me to ask
but how is that not true about you that
you're
wrapped up in myself so much that I
can't see others or so much that you
care whether people see you wow
I want to be seen it seems like Again by
certain people
yeah it's because I'm still wanting that
one kind of attention I've decided I
didn't get
right so how is that not being wrapped
up in yourself
I think it
is
it's wrapped up in my wanting
yeah what makes you judge people for
what you're doing well when they do it
well when they do it obviously Joe it is
way worse than when I do it
I'm a better person than that
[Music]
yeah so okay so you're sitting in the
meeting and the person's like oh this is
exactly what I want from a leader yeah
what are you not seeing about them in
that moment
I feel
I feel like firming
what they want right so that's the
judgment
similar to you
being focused on what you want to be
seen in this particular way but what
what are you not seeing about them how
are you not allowing the men how are you
not seeing them as a full person
if they're telling me that that's what
they want
I notice there's a part of me that
closes to them first
yeah I'm like oh you're not you're not
coming to go meet me
so I'm like tired of bringing myself to
try to meet you right
so one thing I just noticed and I want
to come back to it which is you didn't
answer the question like what is it that
you're not seeing about them you're
telling me what it is that's hard to see
about them
but I'm going to detour for just a
second because my curiosity totally my
Wonder just went in this other direction
okay
um
how is your relationship
with your wants affecting your judgment
about what they want I believe
that asking for exactly for what I want
isn't very effective that's which I
think is part of what's getting in the
way yeah
I'm not just explicitly asking for what
I want right right right and
it sounds like that's not they're not
doing that either in that moment that's
right
that's right true so if them not asking
directly for what they want makes you
feel unseen
what does it say about you not asking
directly for what you want if anything
the logic is that they're unseen I don't
feel it
I don't want to feel it
I don't want to feel
that
yeah
how does it feel to just say it just be
like I
am not seeing anybody clearly
like right now look at me do you think
you're seeing me clearly like how how
clearly do you think you're seeing me
ah
ah definitely not a hundred percent
nothing is 100 okay so like
hi
I don't know
at what point do I get to feel upset at
you for not feeling seen like what's the
percentage
percent or below or like in that range
that's not good enough okay that's
that's when I get to be upset at you yes
definitely okay and whose criteria do we
get to use like how do we get the data
to know what percentage it's at well
right like so so so as an example
how true is it that you don't want to be
in a leadership position
generally
um how true is it that I don't want to
be in a leadership position generally
historically I have bulked right now no
I definitely want to be in charge
so they are seeing you
I really do want to be in charge
no I that's true they are seeing me but
if they're telling me then it like feels
like they're putting power back over of
like
pat on the head good job little leader
and I'm like [__] you okay right so what
they're not seeing is that you already
are a leader what they're not seeing is
I don't need you to affirm me
oh yeah I just want it I just want it
you just you
don't believe that you're a little like
encouragements
that's like the opposite
it's creating
a power Dynamic that I reject
so how much of this is about not being
seen and how much of this is about
your own empowerment yes
I think it's how empowering is it to
care
about
being seen or about how they treat you
it's not very empowering but I really
want it so like what I'm noticing is
there's like a want component that's not
fully lived there's the being seen
component that's not really lived and
there's the
empowerment component that's not being
really fully lived yep want seen
empowerment yeah yeah so how do you
undermine the people who fall into that
category fall into the dad category
if in any way how do you undermine them
oh definitely there is a way
um
oh
[Laughter]
from let's see well uh I could think of
a few things one is I
I just immediately project that you're
trying to control me or manage me even
if they're really just doing something
that's very normal right so
how does that just that thing so one of
the ways that you undermine them is
Project they're trying to control you
and what's your action I have trouble
being productive and the more space they
give me the more I can be productive I
got it so what you do is you stop
performing for them that's that's the
way you undermine got it so
when that Dynamic happens
how are you undermining your own
empowerment
I'm going to ask you three questions
about each of these things empowerment
being seen
in that moment whatever the third one
was that I forgot
what that's the other one uh
I'm undermining my empowerment
well just the fact that I'm responding
to that
it feels like I'm
still surrendering my power on some
level I'm still surrendering my power on
some level yeah to rebel against
somebody or to do what they tell you
both of us put them in the control seat
yeah okay so one of the things that by
undermining them you've empowered them
okay right and I've decided I'm like
helpless to do other like it's hard to
figure out how to get out of that right
right right I'm not productive I want to
be productive ah it's your fault you
know whatever yeah
yeah and then the second one is want how
is it
um that you're abandoning your wants in
that scenario
where you're undermining them by
rebelling against them by not being
productive
because they patted you on the head yeah
I feel like I'm getting out of touch
with the part of me that just simply
wants to work on this project once to
build this Vision wants to contribute to
this company like the independent of
the authority figure okay
and then the third one was there was
empowerment want and oh not being seen
so
how is it that you're preventing
yourself from being seen in this
scenario
in this scenario
I'm reinforcing a story
I don't know if that's right okay let me
ask a question you have somebody working
for you
and they've stopped being productive
what are your choices in interacting
with them to get them to be productive
or to accept that they won't be
productive like what are your what are
your choices sit down and talk with them
and ask what's happening for them right
so that puts you in the control position
what's the next one
um I can give them space just say hey
you know everyone goes through Ebbs and
flows let's just see what happens over
time
um I could
um
ask somebody else to check in with them
you know go around the side door I could
uh take the project away from them I
could
um yeah adjust the project be like okay
actually now I just I need this scope
and this time give you like I can
micromanage right
um how about give them lots of
compliments in the hopes that they'll
respond to positive reinforcement oh
right I guess that's a thing
it's not a thing I do see it's already
not even a thing I think about
I'm like that doesn't work yeah so out
of all these options how many of them
would make you feel seen
I do think sitting down and asking me
what's up really vulnerably without
there being any
punishment energy at all
that would feel great how many people do
you know who respond that way like if
you were to guess there's a hundred
managers how many would respond in that
way very none of them not many of them
maybe one of them okay so we'll call it
one percent of them will yeah sure in
that case you've proven that 99 of them
can't see you
or what am I missing by saying that I
don't feel like I need that all the time
you know what it what it really is is
it's
I'm specifically triggered if it's like
again a man who reminds me of my dad
because if it's a woman no issues well
you can do any of those things and I
don't care right
so there's these three things that all
happen this wanting disempowerment
and not being seen and like overall how
do you see it that you're creating this
in your world if in any way I mean you
might not see that at all you might see
that it's actually all their fault but
what is it that
if there's any way you see your creation
of it how one thing that I've definitely
hit on is
I'm not
letting myself be seen like it's a okay
how would it be to stop right now and
let yourself be seen really scary
how deep are you going right now and
letting yourself be seen 20 percent
there's like a submission quality that's
not the thing uh
beautiful
so how is it to be seen without
submitting without surrendering in your
complete empowerment
[Laughter]
it's like the two it's like either I'm
like
one of those yeah right
so how would it be for you to say to me
this is this is scary one for me to ask
how would it be to say to me
Joe I I want to surrender to you or I
want to fight you I don't want to be
with you I just want to surrender to you
or fight you yeah I want to fight you
yeah
ah
or want to roll over
I want to roll over and not get hurt
yeah how much distance did that just
create between us I was in the saying
um which distance
something about sharing it felt
kind of good
instead of like having an invisible
fight happening
I felt like more
Clarity like honesty
transparency
and how does it say to say the opposite
of it how does it feel to say the
opposite the opposite I want to fight
with myself no
I wanna
let's try that yeah that made me very
curious okay
Joe I either want to fight myself
or I just want to roll over and stay
safe
I either want to fight against myself or
I don't want to listen
what's the opposite of fighting
ah
it feels like you're still fighting a
little bit I am
I'm totally still fighting just a little
it's just like softer I'm like oh maybe
if I fight a little quieter
maybe if I do it like this
because then I'll also feel like
collapse the other side and I'm like
wait yeah okay stand back up what is
this so how would it be to try it again
and feel the feeling of fight or rolling
over
and then letting your body
feel the exact opposite of those
emotions yeah
I'm like bringing myself back in there's
some
some like mild dissociation I notice you
stopped looking at me when you're trying
to feel this yeah
I feel
like I lose connection with myself when
I look at you
um I don't lose connection with myself
it's
like a thinner path or something it's a
lot
it feels more difficult so what would
this feeling be if you weren't resisting
it if you weren't disassociating if you
weren't
scared it feels really alive
it also feels almost like so alive
that also feels scary
listening to this interaction we can see
how she feels like there's a dichotomy
between rolling over and fighting
this is a false dichotomy that a lot of
people hold it's an indicator that
you're in a power over state of mind
seeing the dynamic as a win or lose
zero-sum game that someone's going to
win and someone else is not
so many of our conversations are
structured in this way and it can be
really hard to move from power over into
empowerment let's listen further to see
what happens
so what I've heard you described so far
is something that feels alive and full
of energy
and undefended
and I repeatedly have things like ah
it's maybe not safe you know all the
other things out here how am I feeling
about you right now
in your estimation
you feel very calm and
grounded I don't know you feel
about me though yeah yeah about you
you feel kind of awe it's really nice
yeah it feels good
how much of me is fighting you and how
much of me is rolling over for you
you're not rolling over you're
um you've had to guess how much am I
fighting you oh very low if probably a
tiny bit is like it's very very low
what's the fight that little itty bitty
bit what am I fighting you to do for
what's the purpose it's a very light
feeling
of like my bringing my attention or like
being it's there's just a very light
touch to it all right so there's there's
some part of me trying to control you a
little bit a little bit it's like
guiding attention just this like light
yeah
there's a little bit like I I you know
in partiality is I think impossible to
get rid of but there there is a little
bit that's like
what I want to know what the feeling is
when it's unresistant
yeah sure so if that's true
how would it be possible for someone to
not
some way want to control you like even
that is a subtle way in which I want to
control you I don't think there's a way
to not do that
I don't think I'd take strong issue with
everyone trying to control me but yeah
but when needed it sounds like it's a
good reason to feel like you're not
being seen what am I missing it's
certainly a Surefire excuse why I'm not
being seen
yeah that's right you're trying to
control me yes of course
I'm human
yes yeah and I and I can't deny I'm
still really curious what is this
experience
of non-fight of non-rolling over what's
your body's answer to that question
balance came up I don't like the word
equality I think there's some [__]
in that but I there's something yeah we
are definitely not [__] equal how
could we be our hand size isn't the same
but like balance there's still a meeting
that feels balanced
where it's not you or me or you or me
and how can we be balanced with each
other without love how can we be
balances each other Without Love
and my head was like I wasn't tracking
love so far increase or decrease the
amount of love you feel towards me and
see how it affects balance if at all
well that was fun so automatic okay
I feel like just patterns in my face
being like distance okay uh
ah distance what what's that distance
like how does the distance relate to
fight or rolling over it feels
a little bit like
it's still fight in essence
it's like I'm gonna keep you at a
distance yeah yeah I will be over here
and you're gonna be over there
yeah I'm just gonna manage this but
because if you get too close it's fight
that's what I've decided yeah yeah and
how does that relate to balance I feel
off miles back like physically
somatically my body is defending back
inside I'm off balance back
oh I still feel falling forward that's
the motion I'm like kind of holding
trying to
love feels a lot like falling forward
so what would happen if you took that
experience to this
authority figure boss whoever it is that
Pats you on the head says I see you want
to be a good leader
that empowered
upright
non-falling forward love
non-submissive love yeah
I'll be the authority figure you see
what happens you tell me speak from that
place and see what happens
I have been
treating you like a person
a person in my head and so the person
who's here
oh wow
I haven't given you a chance to get to
know me
thank you for that that really lets me
know that you're ready for leadership
soon
[Laughter]
oh ouch
how much of a relief how much of joy is
there in that pain
I go to you I go to you then like but
you're gonna misinterpret that you're
gonna make it
how am I going to misinterpret it you're
gonna think
let me try to repeat myself
or you're gonna think she's not taking
me seriously right now oh like if I'm in
the position of the authority figure
yeah if you go out then I'm going to
attack in some way yeah yeah I didn't
mean that as an attack I didn't mean to
hurt you
hmm stay in that place upright
undefended love what what happens from
that place
and it did hurt yeah and
it is absolutely fine that you
don't see the way it hurt it's okay
uh
uh yeah
that was perfect
[Music]
it was beautiful to see her come out of
the session in her stance of empowerment
The Stance of empowerment is one where
you're open-hearted but you're
boundaried it's one where you state your
truth with courage and you're not
worried about the consequences or
another person's reaction
and You're vulnerable because that's
what's rewarding to you and not because
of what someone else is going to do
to be empowered is to be in your truth
while being open and loving let's send
some gratitude to our guest for her
vulnerability in sharing this session
publicly it landed very deeply in me and
I learned a lot about myself and how I
relate to power dynamics
I'm going to close with a few
integration questions
sit and wonder with these questions for
a moment and just see what comes up
[Music]
how is your relationship with authority
influenced by your relationship with
your parents
[Music]
what stands in the way of you loving
somebody that you judge
[Music]
what are things that you judge about
others that you also judge about
yourself
thanks for listening
[Music]